Issue Tracker CLI – User Documentation
Overview

The Issue Tracker CLI is a Java-based command-line application that allows users to track system issues directly in a Google Spreadsheet. The application is packaged as a Docker container, making it easy to run on any system with Docker installed.

The app supports creating issues, updating their status, and listing issues filtered by status.

Requirements

Java 17+ (handled by Docker container)

Docker installed on the system

Access to the pre-configured Google Spreadsheet for issue tracking

Commands
1. Create a New Issue

Create a new issue in the spreadsheet.

Syntax:

docker run --rm <docker_image> create -d "description" [-p parentId]


Parameters:

-d or --description (required): Description of the issue.

-p or --parentId (optional): ID of the parent issue, if applicable.

Example:

docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest create -d "Customer 360 job is not ingesting into Search Engine"
docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest create -d "Databricks job failing on parsing DoB" -p AD-1

2. Update Issue Status

Update the status of an existing issue.

Syntax:

docker run --rm <docker_image> update -i issueId -s status


Parameters:

-i or --issueId (required): ID of the issue to update.

-s or --status (required): New status. Allowed values: OPEN, IN_PROGRESS, CLOSED.

Example:

docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest update -i AD-1 -s IN_PROGRESS
docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest update -i AD-2 -s CLOSED

3. List Issues

List all existing issues filtered by status.

Syntax:

docker run --rm <docker_image> list -s status


Parameters:

-s or --status (required): Filter issues by status. Allowed values: OPEN, IN_PROGRESS, CLOSED.

Example:

docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest list -s OPEN
docker run --rm josephpupava/myapp:latest list -s CLOSED


Output Example:

ID	Description	Parent ID	Status	Created at	Updated at
AD-1	Customer 360 Job is not ingesting		CLOSED	2024-10-01T10:02	2024-10-02T14:35
AD-2	Databricks Job is failing on parsing	AD-1	OPEN	2024-10-03T16:12
Docker Usage

To build the Docker image locally:

docker build -t myapp:latest .


To run any command, replace <docker_image> with your image name (e.g., myapp:latest or josephpupava/myapp:latest if pulled from Docker Hub).

Examples:

docker run --rm myapp:latest create -d "New test issue"
docker run --rm myapp:latest list -s OPEN

Notes

The application uses a facade layer for Google Sheets integration, allowing potential future extensions to other platforms (Office365, Jira, databases, etc.).

The CLI is designed with modularity and SOLID principles for maintainability.

Unit and functional tests cover the application to ensure correctness.

All source code is version-controlled and available on GitHub